[Music]
how your smartphone affects your brain
and body 63% of people aged between 18
and 29 and 30% of people from 30 to 60
for fall asleep holding their
smartphones did you know that
smartphones can harm your brain disrupt
your body's biorhythms and damage your
health shockingly a double espresso
influences our body less than the light
of our phone we've collected surprising
and terrifying consequences of using
smart phones during the night confusion
of biorhythms it is natural for your
brain and body to follow the cycle of
sleep and wait fulfill energized and
active during the daytime and rest at
night but let's see what happens when
you look at your smartphone screen when
it's dark can you imagine that the light
from the gadget has the same effect as
the morning sun it makes your brain stop
producing melatonin and it's the hormone
which is necessary for your sound sleep
but what is more melatonin also makes
the development of cancer and other
diseases slow down or prevents it
completely so when you are engrossed in
your phone when the night comes your
brain gets confused the poor thing is
sure that it is the light of day and
it's not the right time to sleep wake up
and shine and while your body is tired
and demands rest your brain sends quite
controversial signals what do you feel
at this moment it's harder to fall
asleep and to wake up afterwards
[Music]
accumulation of toxins do you know that
during the day our organism accumulates
neurotoxins these are organic compounds
which can be poisonous to our central
and peripheral nervous system the human
body is a clever mechanism if we can say
so and it gets rid of these toxic
substances during the long phase of
sleep do you see the logical chain
melatonin and other hormones aren't
produced sleep cycles are disturbed our
sleep becomes broken and restless it
leads to toxins accumulation in this
process in turn results in headaches
tiredness exhaustion of the nervous
system and stress scientists strongly
recommend to have seven to nine hours of
sleep otherwise your brain neurons won't
have time to rest and your body won't
have time to get purified from
neurotoxins it gets harder to study just
five minutes we promise ourselves
I'll only check my facebook feed and
perhaps look through some Instagram
photos and then I'll immediately go to
sleep well when we come to our senses
it's already morning does this story
sound familiar
we are the captives of our smartphones
therefore we sleep less spending more
and more time with our electronic
friends but don't forget the less we
sleep the more difficult it is for our
brain to receive new information and no
wonder it's just overloaded and doesn't
have enough time to process everything
we try to learn during a day what is
more the research shows that students
who overuse their phones
need 25 minutes to concentrate on the
task get
memory disruptions we have already
spoken about the problems our brain can
experience when it perceives new data
but there is even a worse problem it
gets harder and harder to remember old
already existing information it
resembles a messy wardrobe when it is
untidy and crammed to overflowing it
becomes increasingly difficult to find
needed things you have to apply more
effort and time to have the right result
you are always hungry surprised not an
enjoyable one indeed if melatonin is
produced incorrectly and the sleep
cycles are broken your internal organs
won't work properly for example your
stomach and intestines it makes sense
your body is tired but your brain is
wide awake so it sends a signal even a
demand about the necessity for extra
energy and we feel the need to eat
something
though it's not necessary it can lead to
digestion problems including obesity and
ruined metabolism moreover a special
test was conducted it examined 49
students who had to run on a treadmill
in the process of the experiment it
became obvious that those who spend up
to 14 hours a day using their phones
were much less fit than those who smart
came time was just about one and a half
hour
[Music]
you might get vision disorder it is
likely that your mom has always warned
you not to watch TV if the light is off
and she was mostly right bluish light
from a TV set tablet or our smartphone
negatively influences the retina of our
eyes and damages it such impact is
especially bad in the darkness
not only eye structures become irritated
our eye nerve suffers as well that's
where the phrase my eyes have gotten
tired it comes from we don't want to
scare you but in some extreme situations
it can lead to almost blindness when
2000 people were interviewed about the
reasons for their vision problems 55
percent admitted that their eye
discomfort
most probably stemmed from their habit
of spending too much time including the
dark on their smartphones your mood
changes unfortunately even our mood can
become worse and due to the habitat -
our phone before sleep people become
irritable and it can even cause
depression a study which was held in
Northwestern University says that the
more time people spend on their phones
especially at night time - higher the
risk of them getting depressed
[Music]
what can you do to avoid these dreadful
consequences stop work with gadgets at
least two hours before sleep this time
is typically enough for our brain to
understand that it's already night and
it is high time we've prepared for high
quality healthy rest read a paper book
instead of surfing the internet or
watching movies online actually you can
even use an e-book some devices Kindle
for example don't produce blue light as
a result not messing up your biorhythms
use special applications if you have
some urgent work to do or an important
message to receive and it's not possible
to switch off your mobile phone modern
technologies come to the rescue there
are special filters you can add to your
screen and of course these filters are
not physical no there are special
applications which filter blue light the
light scheme of your gadget changes
according to the time of the day or
night when you use the device the screen
gets a warmer redder glow when it
becomes dark outside
this way the unpleasant results of using
smartphones which we have spoken about
are significantly reduced
if this video has revealed some
interesting information to you and has
been useful don't forget to share it
with your friends hit the like button
below the video and click subscribe to
join us on the bright side of life
[Music]
[Applause]